BIRDS 

OF 

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND 



ORDER PASSERES 



FAMILY ORIOLID^. 

THIS famil}^ consists of a tropical group of brightly coloured birds in whicli 
yellow and black, or scarlet and black, are the prevailing hues. Although 
in the general form of their heads they somewhat remind one of Starlings, 
they must not be confounded with tha so-called "Orioles" of the New World, 
which belong to the family IdcridcE or Hang-nests and Troupials, a group of birds 
linking the Finches and the Starlings, and feeding largely upon seeds and insects. 
The late Henry Seebohm was of opinion that the Orioles were nearly related 
to the Crows ; he, therefore, placed the genus Oriolus in his Subfamily Corvince, from 
which he said that they chiefly differed in their exposed nostrils, although he 
admitted that the tarsus might perhaps be slightly shorter, and the prevailing 
colours different ; whilst the sexes also were dissimilar.* 

In addition to the above distinctive characters, the third primary of the wing 
(not the fourth or fifth) appears to be the longest, in the Orioles; whilst the 

* The fact that they hop when on the ground, would hardly serve to distinguish the Orioles from the 
Crows; for anyone who has watched a Raven, must have been vastly amused by its ungainly hopping in all 
directions. 

Vol. II. B 



3 The Goloen Oriole. 

whole character of the nest, which Seebohm often made much of iu his classifi- 
cation, is quite unlike that of a Crow ; being neatly woven, and slung like a 
hammock between the forks of a branch : moreover, whereas the eggs of the Crows 
are usually of some shade of green or blue, heavily spotted and speckled, or 
blotched and mottled, with various shades of olive or brown, those of the Orioles 
vary from white to salmon-pink, clearly spotted with blackish-brown, and some- 
times with lilacine-greyisli shell-markings. 

The call-notes and songs of the Orioles are bright and melodious ; but this 
fact would not be a sufficient reason for dissociating them from the Crows ; 
although our native species of Corvidcr do not shine as whistlers, in their wild 
state. I think, however, that Howard Saunders was fully justified in adopting 
the present family for the Orioles. 



Familx— ORIOL ID^E. 



The Golden Oriole. 

Oriolus ga/bula, LiNN. 

BREEDS in suitable localities throughout Europe south of the Baltic and in 
Algeria ; passes through Greece, Asia Minor, Palestine, Egypt, and Nubia, 
on migration ; and winters in North Africa, south-eastwards to Madagascar, 
Natal, and westwards to Damara Land : stragglers sometimes occur in Madeira, 
and the Azores. 

The Golden Oriole is a regular visitor to our shores in spring, the largest 
number having been seen in the Scilly Islands, and Cornwall ; it has, however, 
been met with in not a few of the southern and south-eastern counties, and several 
instances of its breeding with us have been recorded. In 1868, I saw a male 
specimen of this bird near Linton, in Devonshire, and in July, 1887, I was just 
too late to see the species in Essex ; Mr. Fitch, of Maldon (whom I was visiting) 
informed me that the bird had been seen in one of his thickets during the previous 
